um thank you for coming despite a
terrible weather great weather in some
sense it is a great weather because when
it's sunny and warm you want to be
outside but in this weather I certainly
don't want to be outside so it's a
perfect time to find absolute maxima and
minima of functions so why don't we do
that I would like to I would like to
pick up where I left off last time and
discuss the example of discuss the
example of finding maxima and minima of
a function on two dimensional domain
which is a square and I think it's a
good example to illustrate the the main
points and also to make a transition to
the next topic which we'll discuss today
which is Lagrange multipliers okay so we
have a function we have this function
and we have this domain which I drew
last time it is a square
it is a square which is a set of lengths
each side is of length 2 which is a
which is situated on the plane like this
ok so we need to find the absolute
maximum minimum of this function and the
way I explain this is you have to follow
the an algorithm the easiest way to
solve this problem is to follow an
algorithm and the first step is the
first step of this algorithm is to look
in the interior of the domain ok should
I do this example or not ok thanks
alright I think I should I mean I will
go quickly I know that this was in last
week's homework and stuff and even quiz
I suppose but since I started doing it I
just wanted to go quickly over it again
ok so step one is step one is to look at
the interior of the domain and to
calculate the partial derivatives
instead set the partial equal to zero ok
I'm going to skip that and I already did
it last time but this is inside the
domain so the next step that's very easy
right when you just get two equations
and you solve them you find all the
functions sorry all the points which
satisfy this this equation and this will
be the first point on your list next you
look at each component of the boundary
and on each component of the boundary
you can set one of the variables equals
something so effectively your function
restricted to that component becomes a
function one variable so let's say if we
take the part of the boundary which is
which is that top horizontal segment
that would be y equal 1 and X between
negative 1 and 1 when you when you set
like 1 in the function you would
actually get a new function let's call
it G of X which is x squared plus 1 plus
x squared plus 4 which is 2x squared
plus 5 right 2x squared plus 5 and what
you want what you want to do now is to
come to find the point find the point
where F G prime of X is equal to 0 so
this will be the point on on the
boundary which are suspicious which are
candidates for points of maximum minimum
all right and I purposefully just look
at the interior on the interior of this
interval so that means X is between
negative 1 and 1 but strict strict
inequalities I didn't make this clear I
think at the end of my last lecture what
exactly I wanted you to do at this at
this step and so I want to emphasize
that what I was talking about is just
finding the point where the derivative
vanishes and then step 3 would be just
to include the corners
now there is a different way to think
about this there is a different way to
think about this process that the way it
is described in the book is there are
two steps okay first step is exactly the
same as what I explained but the second
step would be to try to find the maximum
minimum of the function on each of the
components of the boundary or I mean
they say on the entire boundary but
effectively you will have to split it
into four parts right and do it on each
part separately now what would be
involved in doing that it would so let's
say when you look at this at my example
my component y equals 1 you look at y
equals 1 you effectively get 1
dimensional problem where you have the
interval from negative 1 to 1 and you
want to find the absolute maximum minima
of the function and G of x equals 2x
squared plus 5 so you split this problem
into two parts as well you look at the
interior of the interval and you find
points where the derivative is 0 right
and also you look at the endpoints so
you have to look at the endpoints as
part of the problem of finding the
maximum minima on this interval right so
what I did in my presentation of this
algorithm I have I have taken the
endpoints and put them in a separate
list or sub list a separate sub list so
that in step 2 you would only be doing
part of the problem of cut off finding
the absolute maximum minimum on this
interval namely the points where the
derivative vanishes in the interior and
then you have to deal with the corners
corners being the endpoints of those
intervals anyway the reason I like this
this way of thinking about it is the
following that the same corner say this
one will appear twice as the boundary as
the boundary of this horizontal segment
and the boundary of this vertical
segment so if you go by the book so to
speak right so if you if
actually literally solve the problem for
each of this segment you will have to
deal you have to include this point
twice whereas what I'm suggesting it's
really a minor variation right but what
I'm suggesting is that don't worry about
the corners from the beginning just put
them at the end include include them
when I say include I mean include them
in your list your list of suspicious of
maybe let's not to use the word
suspicious let's use the word candidate
candidates for marks and win maxima and
minima right so you include them anyway
so let's unser in step two then I'm
suggesting not to worry about the
corners which could also be thought of
at the end points of the one-dimensional
problems which you get on the boundary
but instead just focus on the interiors
of the boundary components and just find
the point in there where the derivative
is zero okay so that's I think it's a
slightly easier way to think about it
but if you like it's okay you can you
can do it in two steps so to speak in
other words including the calculation
with the corners in step two you just
have to do the same worked why I mean
you have to deal with the same point
twice in this example you see what I
mean is that clear
so that's what I meant I didn't really
spell it out in detail that's what I
meant at the end of my last lecture when
I said there's three steps in other way
I don't mean by step to doing the entire
problem of finding the maximum minimum
on each interval I mean just doing part
of that namely finding the point where
the drift with zero and then the end
point you do is a separate step so in
this particular example in this
particular example you get you have a
list of of how many points quite a few I
mean I'm not sure I should actually
write them down but you have some points
which will have the riverboat for which
some points where the parts of the
routes will vanish and interior some
there will be some points in the
interior of those segments where the
derivative vanishes and finally there
will be the corners so I have what 1/2
three four five six seven eight nine ten
eleven eleven I think I have eleven
point but anyway it's not it's not 100
it's going to the small number of points
and then what you do is you just
evaluate your function at those points
and you find for which points you get
the maximum value and for which points
you get the minimum value it's possible
that would be more than one point at
which the function will attain the same
maximum value you just think with both
of them and say that the function takes
the maximum value at those two points or
three points or whatever okay any
questions about this alright so the
reason why this problem was relatively
easy was the following step one would be
essentially the same for all for all
domains I mean for step one no matter
what your domain is you'll just have to
calculate the point you just have to
find the point where the two partial
derivatives vanish and then you have to
make sure that that point belongs to the
to your domain so even if the domain has
a complicated shape right that's not
going to be so hard you just have to
know which domains belong which points
belong to this domain which points don't
the problem would arise at step two if
the domain is not quite so simple right
so let me give you an example another
example
is the domain where x and y are such
that x squared plus 4y squared are less
is less than or equal to 1 okay so let's
let's sketch this domain so these are
going to first of all when you sketch
domains by the way this is a general
rule which you probably have figured out
already
a long time ago you first look you have
an inequality you first look at the
corresponding equality right so in this
case you would have just x squared plus
4y squared equals 1 and you sketch that
right and that we know that's an ellipse
we talked about the Lipsett so for
instance we have the point x equal 1 x
equals negative 1 and y equals 0 and we
also have the points y equals 1/2 and y
equals negative point 1/2
two other points and then the ellipse
the ellipsis looks like this so it's
kind of a circle which is squished my
good so that's the the equality gives
you a curve and in fact 2 we can
recognize our old friend the level curve
here right this is the level curve for
the function x squared plus 4 y squared
but if instead of instead of equality
you write inequality like this it means
that in addition you include points for
which the value is not equal to strictly
1 but could be less than 1 and and that
means that this points are going to be
on one or the other side of of this of
this curve in this case is easy to
figure out which side well first of all
they're going to be on the same side and
a clearly x equals 0 and y equals 0
satisfy this equation equality right is
formula and that's this point so clearly
it should be inside and not outside
that's how do you figure out whether
it's an interior inside or outside
interior part or the exterior part of
the plane
or inside the curve or outside the curve
in this case it's inside and usually
usually you know it's easy to figure
this out so that's the domain that's
what now plays the role of the square
okay and let's suppose you're asked to
find find maxima and minima of the
following function f I'll make a
functional BD here linear function 2x
plus y so how would you solve this
problem
well you approach it in exactly the same
way solve it in the same way meaning
that the first step would be to set FX
equal zero and FY plus 0 and find all
the points inside the domain inside the
domain TD which satisfy these two
formulas so in that case it's very it's
very easy to see that there are no no
point like this because in this case F
sub x is equal to two so to equal zero
no solutions and FY equals zero also no
solutions so so in step one we don't get
any contribution to the list of
candidates or list of suspicious points
so everything boils down to the boundary
and in fact there is no step three no
step three here because there are no
corners the boundary is smooth so we'd
like to understand this entire boundary
sort of in one shot how can we do this
the idea in the previous analysis was to
to express the restriction of our
function to the boundary or maybe a
component of the boundary as a function
one variable once it becomes a function
one variable we can solve the problem by
just going back to the one variable
calculus right but in this case it's not
so clear because well in the old problem
it was very easy you just have sit y
equal 1 and of course is obvious that
the function then becomes a function of
only one variable namely X but here what
should you substitute well one way to
deal with this would be one possibility
would be to express one of the two
variables on the boundary in terms of
the other so you could write for example
x equals square root of 1 minus 4y
squared but there is a problem we have
two solutions there is + -1 - y 4y
squared right so in fact what we're
doing is we're taking this very nice
domain and we are artificially cutting
it here and here and so we are breaking
it into two parts one would be where X
is greater than 0 or greater than or
equal to 0 and the other one would be
where X is less than or equal to 0 right
once you do that so your two components
let me erase this now two components one
is X greater than equal to 0 and the
other one greater go to 0 and then you
can try to solve the problem on each
component right so you would have to you
would get the function say G of Y which
is equal to 2 times square root of 1
minus 4y squared plus y this is in the
case when X is greater than or equal to
0 and similar a similar function with a
negative sign when X is less than or
equal to 0 and you'd have to find the
point where G prime is y 0 so you see
that it looks kind of nasty right
because the function is not so nice and
four and you split such a beautiful a
beautiful ellipse into two parts then
you'll have to also deal with the end
points they are not corners the way they
were corners there because there they
were actually non smooth they were
singular kind of points of singularity
here the actually smooth points but we
have we have sort of artificially made
them singular make them look like
corners because now this they appear as
the end points of the they appear is the
end point of this two segments two parts
of the boundary right so it is possible
to solve the problem in this way but
it's just not a very elegant solution so
it is natural to try to find a more
elegant solution and the more elegant
solution so then they would still be
step three
actually in this approach they would
still be step three which will
correspond to points x equals zero and y
equals plus minus 1/2 kind of fake
corners right so what I'm going to
explain now is the more is a more
elegant solution which is called
Lagrange multipliers it's a more elegant
solution which is applicable to even
more sophisticated functions in this
case you actually we are dealing with a
fairly simple level curve or with the
level curve of a very simple function
and that's why we can actually get away
with expressing one of the variables in
terms of the other but let's say let's
suppose you had instead of this you had
something like x squared plus 4y squared
plus XY plus you know some plus y plus
square root of x or something
so then try to express now Y in terms of
X or X in terms of Y that would be very
complicated right it's not alone even if
you can then you have to take the
derivatives and stuff like that so
that's very complicated but it turns out
that there is actually there is actually
a much more straightforward and elegant
method and that's called Lagrange
multipliers
and actually I would like to explain
this method first geometrically so let
me look again at this practice at this
picture this picture can add the domain
D consists of two parts again it
consists of the interior of the of the
ellipse and the ellipse itself but we
have just seen that on the interior of
the ellipse there are no interesting
points for us there are no candidates
for maximum and minimum because our
function is such that there are no
points where both partial derivatives
vanish so actually we can forget about
the interior the problem boils down to
understanding the maxima and minima of
our function restricted to just the
boundary there is nothing interesting
for us inside so that's why I'm erasing
I'm sort of raising this and I am I'm
just focusing on the boundary and now I
would like to do to approach this
problem geometrically in other words we
have discussed we have discussed several
times level curves and for example we
recognize this curve itself is a level
curve of some function and I said many
times that if you know the level curves
of a given function you cannot you can
understand much better the shape of this
function right so let's see how it works
in practice in this problem the the
boundary is given by an equation so the
boundary is a level curve that's a given
but we also have a function so you have
to separate the two things that you have
first of all you have the equation this
is the equation of the boundary but you
also have a function and so what we can
do is we can also look at the level
curves of this function right here we
are looking at just one level curve Y on
the one level curve because this is the
equation the equation is that this is
equal to one so we are just looking at
one level curve for this function f
sorry for this function which let's call
it let's go with something else code H I
don't want to use G because I already
use G for this at a
so this is a function age for the
function age there is only one level
curve which shows up in this problem we
don't care about other level curves but
for the function f we would like to find
maximum minimum minimum values maximum
and minimum values and we don't know yet
where they are so we should look at all
level curves for that second function f
so what are what do these level curves
look like so the level curves level
curves for f of X y equal to X plus y
are given by equations 2x plus y equals
K or K some number number so for
instance one possibility is K K is equal
to 0 to X plus y equals 0 any questions
2x 2x plus y equals 0 what is 2x plus y0
it's the same as y equals maybe it's
easier if I write like this y equals
minus 2x that looks like this
that's a line which goes through zero
with the slope slope with negative two
right and then if you look at other
lines like this for example for instance
2x plus y equals one this is just y
equals minus 2x plus 1 so that's going
to be a line which is parallel to this
one but goes through the point 1 so it's
it's actually in this case is going to
cut here at the point 1/2 right so I
should do it
more precisely like this and so on
well my lines are not perfect yeah my
lines are not perfectly aligned but I
hope you see the time what I'm doing
anyway all right
and what about other level curves well
of course all other level curves are
going to be just parallel lines I mean
we are so sophisticated now we even
understand equations of planes in
3-space for sure we understand equations
of lines on the plane this is this looks
like a typical equation well if we had a
Z that would be typical equation for a
plane in 3-space and because we don't
have a Z it's even simpler so instead of
a plane and 3-space we'll get a line in
two-dimensional space on the plane where
2 comma 1 is a normal vector so when you
vary this number K you're going to get a
system of parallel lines with such
normal vector so I've drawn two of them
but now I drew a little more so here's
another one yeah kind of I kind of
messed it up let me do it again I didn't
want to emphasize the fact that this
apart
this is a system of parallel lines ok
let's see if I can do it better this
time
so we got this and that is
okay and now I want to draw a master
line which is going to be this one
I keep hearing are you hearing voices
like as if there is some color
commentary sort of too much to my
play-by-play eye I don't mind but I'm
sure that your people think next to you
probably mine is okay so here the system
of lines like this okay so I think it's
more clear now okay
so so let's say that this one goes
through zero what is special about each
of these lines
what especially that along each of this
line are each of this line the value of
the function f is the same that's the
function which we want to maximize
minimize I would like to find the
maximum minimum values of that function
and now what we what this picture tells
us it tells us the lines of equal value
for that function so for instance for
instance the function is going to be
equal to zero
along this line right the function is
going to be equal to where's my master
line this is my master line the function
is going to be one equal to 1 along this
line the function is going to be equal
to say 1/2 along this line maybe 3/4
along this line 1 and 1/4 along this
line and so on right whatever line you
want to control and it's going to be one
of these parallel lines okay but that's
this is the level curves for the
function on the entire plane but for now
we are interested in in step two so we
are looking because step one did not
produce anything anyway right so we are
looking just at this ellipse so what
we're really interested in is the values
of the function on the lips
oh sorry not this one this one right the
one which goes to zero yeah it's a just
bad drawing it's a bad drawing day but
this one but you see what I mean and one
half would be then and it's not one half
it's like one third sorry
well you see what I mean it's it's not
to scale it's not parallel and it's not
it's a very qualitative picture not very
cool not very precise kind of apps
abstract like the castle the way the
castle with a project okay but I hope
you see what I mean that as you vary the
point is that when you go to the next
one to the right the value will increase
when you go to the next one to the left
the value of the function will decrease
but we are interested not in the values
everywhere we are only interested in the
value on and values on that ellipse so
in particular we now know that here and
here that these are the two points of
intersection of the line F equals zero
with our lips here and here the function
is equal to zero here and here the
function is equal to one here and here
it's equal to one third and so on right
so now how can we use this picture to
find where the function takes maximum or
minimum values well the point is that
for sure
we can see from this picture it's quite
clear that F equals zero is not it's
neither maximum or nor minimum why
because this line we can move both to
the right and to the left when we move
it to and we'll still have some points
of intersection with our domain not an
obvious Demeter with a village with our
curve right if I move it even by 1/3 I
can move it even by 1/3 and I still have
intersection so that cannot be maximum
value because here the value 0 here is
1/3 likewise say this one this one would
be f equal to negative 1/3 so from here
I can also move along this curve to the
left
so I can shift my parallel line to the
left decreasing the value so here is
night of maximum nor minimum likewise
this is neither maximum this one is not
this one is not so at first it looks
like none of them are maximum minima
right so the point is to find the point
where this qualitative argument doesn't
work where it breaks down we have to
find the points where you can no longer
move it to the right or to the left in
what sense
of course you can always move it to the
right and to the left but you cannot
move it and still have non-empty
intersection with your curve for example
you you have a line like this which is
one of the level curves but it's totally
outside of the scope of our problem in
other words there is no intersection
between this line and this curve that we
are interested in right so those guys
are excluded from our consideration
anyway okay and so the point is the
point is to find the points where you
cannot move to the right or to the left
and he'll have a non non-empty
intersection and the point in for most
of these lines for all the lines which I
have drawn you'll have two points of
intersection so as you move further and
further and further to the to the right
okay let me just make it slightly more
realistic looking somebody have a
question no okay
as you move it if you get two points two
points two points two points two points
and then BOOM there is this one point
that something happens at this point the
intersection instead of getting two
points you get just one point of
intersection right in other words you
have two points two points two points
but they get closer and closer to each
other and they converge at this point
and suddenly this is you get a very
special point this point is the point
where the intersection is is just this
one point and not two points right you
should I mean it's just one point like
this and likewise on this and the same
thing you you have intersection at two
points at two points so the next one is
two points justice I'm able to draw
parallel lines today
two points two points and then suddenly
boom there is this one line where where
it intersects at one point only and for
this two points my previous argument
actually breaks down you see because
when I was here I could argue that this
is not the maximum minimum because I
could move this way I could move that
way and and when I move a little bit I
would still be have a nonzero non-empty
intersection with my curve but when I'm
here I can certainly move it to the left
so I can decrease the value but I cannot
move it to the right it's kind of frozen
here what do I mean that I cannot move
it to the right of course I can I can
move it but if I move it by any small
amount epsilon or any other small amount
there will still be a line like this but
it will not intersect my curve right so
that second argument breaks down so that
means that this is the maximum value
because I cannot move it anymore
to the right you see what I mean
likewise this is the minimum value
because I cannot move it anymore to the
left so what are these special points
well now we know enough about level
curves and things like that to realize
that these are precisely the points
where this line is tangent to this level
curve to this curve right so this is the
this is the case when this is a tangent
line and likewise this is the case where
this is a tangent line okay and what
does we know there is a tangent line it
means that they are the normal vector
the normal vector to this level curve is
proportional to the normal vector of it
of this line right
[Applause]
so we have found that the maximum minima
are the coins where the level curve of
the function f of X Y which in this case
is 2x plus y in this case the level
curves up Alliance button generally
they're not going to be lines they're
going to be some curves where the level
curve of the function which we want to
maximize and minimize so f is function
that we want to maximize or minimize
okay if it's tangent to our curve which
is this H of X Y which is equals 1 so it
is this is x squared plus 4 y squared
equals 1 so that's the given curve
that's the given curve
so the point is that we are giving this
in this exercise we are given two
functions but they play very different
roles there is a function f and there is
a function h function f is the function
which we want to maximize minimize
therefore we kind of look at all level
curves of that H is the second function
is the function which defines the curve
and also define the domain if we
actually our original problem was about
the interior of that curve as I started
talking about it and for this function
we all need to sit in one level curve
that's our that's the curve where where
we want to maximize and minimize F but
the interesting things happen it the
places where the two things the two
curves then attack are are tangent to
each other as I explained and what is
mean at the attention to each other
float in in this example in this example
the level curves the level curves of F
are lines so it's clear what we mean by
saying that it's tangent because the
topic tangent line but in general if you
have two different curves there is also
an obvious notion of being tangent it is
means that they are the tangent lines to
them are coincide right or in other
words the normal lines to both of them
coincide so this means in other words
the normal lines normal lines so we are
points where the level curve curve of F
is tangent to our curve maybe I should
say these are the point these are the
points inside the points
where the normal lines to f of X y
equals K and H of X y equals 1 at the
same coincide coincide so how do we
check that well we know that the normal
lines are given by the direction vector
the normal vector to that law to that
curve which is a gradient so
equivalently we can say that the two
gradient vectors should be proportional
to each other these are the point X 0 1
0 such that nabla F at x0 y0 is equal to
lambda times nabla h x0 y0 and that's
the equation that will give us those
points what is the meaning of this
equation in our case in our case at each
point we have a normal vector to the
line F F equals K that's the vector
that's the vector 2 this is noble F
extra number F is very easy to find it's
2 comma 1 it's the vector 2 comma 1 the
two partial derivative so we have a 2 in
1 let me do it in red so that everything
is
in color this is number F at this point
and Avila age is the vector which is
normal to the curve so in this case the
curve goes like this so the normal
vector will go like this right so that's
an average a clearly at this point they
are not proportional to each other and
they shouldn't be because these are not
the points where they are tied to a
level curves are tangent to each other
they intersect with a certain angle they
are not tangent but at this point the
two normal vectors suddenly become
proportional to each other so this is
one and this is the other they become
proportional you see so that and
likewise same thing here so that's why
this that's why at this point we get the
maximum minimum values so let's find
this point are there any questions about
this first of all yes what's lambda way
good points so lambda is the coefficient
of proportionality we don't know it
approval this is by the way very
important point because some of you made
this mistake on on the midterm if you
have two if you have two vectors each
vector span the line right so what is
the property of the two vectors for the
lines to get the same it's not that they
are equal right that's not a very quote
they should be proportional because if
you have a you know if you have a vector
you have a vector you get a line but if
you take twice that vector you get the
same line right so so the condition is
much weaker if the condition is that the
two vectors are proportional to each
other and then the two lines coincide
and what does it means that they are
proportional proportional means that one
of them is equal to some number times
the other and we call that number lambda
so that's the coefficient of
proportionality which in this case is
called Lagrange multiplier plug
I'm thinking about some another name
Lagrange multiplier and this method of
finding the sixth ext more points is
called Lagrange multiplier method after
a great French mathematician Lagrange so
any other questions let's see how it
will probably see it but a better one
when we do it next example so let's see
what this equation looks like in this
example so with what is number F now the
F consists of two partial derivatives of
F and those are very easy to find
they're just two and one and what number
H these are the two partial derivatives
of of that function x squared plus 4y
squared so it's going to be HX and hy
going to be 2x + 8 Y and now the
equation that we want is that 2 comma 1
that's the left-hand side is equal to
lambda times 2 X 8 y more precisely in
here I wrote X 0 y 0 let me stick to
that and let's try it also X 0 y 0 but
of course when you do your calculations
you will oftentimes just write x and y
without worrying about this index 0 here
I write x 0 and y 0 to emphasize that we
are talking particular about a
particular point X 0 y 0 and not about
general values X Y so but this is not
just one equation this is a system of
two equations because you have two
components of these vectors so there are
two equations two equals lambda times
works and one equals lambda times X zero
Y Z so let's let's remember one thing
which is that lambda is unknown we are
saying that they are proportional to
each other which we don't know a priori
what the coefficient of proportionality
is so what you need to do here is to
solve these equations for both X 0 y 0
and also lambda but you shouldn't forget
that actually you're solving it not on
the entire plane but you are solving it
on that curve only right we are
interested only in that curve now that's
very important so far
I've written the equation as though X 0
and y 0 were an arbitrary point but in
fact it should be point on that curve at
that curtsy
so we have to add one more equation
which is the equation of that of the
curve which is x squared X 0 in this
case plus 4y squared equals 1 so in fact
you have three equations three equations
on three variables x 0 y 0 and lambda if
you just write these two equations it
would mean that you look everywhere but
you have to constrain x and y or X 0 y 0
by imposing the original equation of
this curve okay so now it looks more
meaningful right because you got three
equations and three variables and
usually generically if you have three
equations with three variables you're
going to get one solution or you get
finitely many solutions that's what's
going to happen here let's let's find
this let's find the solution
so first we can express x0 and y0 in
terms of lambda and then we can
substitute x0 y0 into the third equation
and we'll get one equation on lambda so
that's the simplest way to solve it so
from the first equation we find that x0
is 1 over lambda right for the second
equation we find that y 0 is 1 over 8
lambda and now we put them into the
third equation and we get 1 over lambda
squared plus 4 times 1 over 8 lambda
squared equals 1 ok so that means 1 over
lambda squared times 1 plus 4 divided by
64 equals 1 and that's going to be what
so this is 1 over 16 so that's 17 over
60 and from this you find that lambda
squared is equal to 16 over 17
all right seventeen over sixty right
because you take it to that side
seventeen over sixteen and that means
that there are two solutions for lamda
lamda is equal to plus or minus square
root of seventeen divided by four okay
once we know what lambda is we can find
X 0 and y 0 right so now we find X 0 is
equal to 4 over square root of 17 well
there are two points first of all that
two points right so for each let me do
it slow the Commun not mess it up each
solution for lambda will correspond to a
particular point and of course we kind
of know that we should get two points
expect to get two points one is will be
the maximum and the other one will be
the minimum so the first point is lambda
equals square root of 17 over 4 then X 0
is 4 over square root of 17
and y 0 is 1 over 8 of that so it's 1
over 2 square root of 17 right and the
second point so that's this point that's
this point
and the other point is going to be this
with the minus sign 4 over square root
of 7 okay so lambda equals minus square
root of 17 with x0 is minus 4 over
square root is going to Y be raised
minus 4 minus 1 over 2 square root of
sine and well in this particular case is
clear which one is a maximum which one
is a minimum because we can see it
clearly on the picture but in general it
may not be so obvious so what you should
do is you should just substitute them
into your function and calculate the
value and the one for which the value is
bigger will be the maximum and one for
which the value is smaller it will be
the minimum so in this case F is going
to be you have to substitute 2x plus y
so that's going to be 2x plus y so it's
like 8 22 1 over square root of 17 and
here will be 8 plus 1/2 right so that's
going to be 17 square root of 17 over 2
because you got 17 over this is quilt
and here the function will be just ma
actually in this case ah but here is he
I was too fast
- I kind of I know I did correct that
right so it will be just - of that -
square root of 17 Molitor and so clear
that's the maximum that's minimum so
that's the solution
yes that's right
the point in the same direction so
lambda is positive right and if when
it's a minimum they should be opposite
right exactly
it's always like this if they are
pointing in the same direction that's
the maximum so that's actually a very
good question that we can actually tell
by looking at the in which directions
the two vectors are pointing or in other
words what is the sine of lambda if the
sine of lambda is positive it's the
maximum so sine of lambda is negative
it's a mineral and geometrically
actually I did not draw the picture but
if the picture would be like this this
would be the white will be the gradient
vector for for the function G and but
now the third one will not go this way
but red is always the same right Stuart
- one so that's number F and here he is
here they are opposite whereas here they
are pointing the same direction any
other questions about it yes
right so this that's right
so that's right so you're talking about
the question is about the level could
the red ones right so the the red lines
are the level curves of the function f
which is which is 2x plus y right so we
could look at the equation F equals 2x
plus y right in 3d that would be Z
equals 2x plus y right so in fact
because the function is linear the graph
of this function would be applying right
and that plane actually can be very
easily illustrated here right so so
let's say it's this plane right so now
what are the levels I'm kind of back to
the same drawing which I did a couple of
lectures ago all right what are the
level level curves but you can draw draw
level curve so the level curves are just
what you get the sections which are
parallel to the floor
but by section by planes which are
parallel to the floor right so here's
one of them here's another I should have
drawn in red but you see what I mean
this will be so this at the level curve
for the function f but again so you can
think of the level curves and being part
of the graph but you can also think of
them of their projections onto the XY
plane so what I have drawn on that
picture are the projections onto the XY
plane you see so I'm writing them as
equations f equals something for example
F equals 0 or africans 1/3 or equals
negative 1/3 f equals 1 and so on right
if you if you like you can think of the
plane which is the graph of this
function as 1 which is obtained by
assembling those lines but in a kind of
and a kind of each time you have to lift
it by by the height which is equal to
the value of the function so only this
one only
this one the one we'll forage for which
F is equal to zero would remain on the
XY plane and this one's will be elevated
and those guys will be lower right just
like here so let's say if the XY plane
if the XY plane work so that this one
was let's say this one is f equal to
zero so then this one this one's will
let's say this is just equal 1/3 and so
on so they are all elevated it's like
think about sort of a staircase
I mean it's not in the circus but if you
think of just step 1/3 then this is this
a collection of lines but it doesn't
make sense to draw them in 3d because
they are given by equation on just
extend Y so that's why I'm drawing their
projections onto the floor onto the XY
plane you see yeah that's right that's a
very good question so so far we were
lucky that the domain or the precise the
boundary of the domain but they
presented by one equation only so now I
would like to sort of a last example to
look at the kind of a mixed case where
you can have several components in the
boundary and some of them could be
linear and some of them could be curved
like this so let's say a very simple
generalization of this example would be
[Applause]
very simple generation of this example
would be if you if your domain was like
this so you could say technically the
domain would be XY and such that x
squared plus 4y squared less than equal
to 1 and X is greater than equal to 0
and oftentimes you will have domains
like this so in this case we actually do
have two corners and we actually have
two natural components in the boundary
this is one component this first
component and this is the second
component so how would we solve the
problem of finding maxima and minima for
a function f if our domain it like this
so let's say we're given some function f
of XY i don't want to specify what this
function is it could be this function 2x
plus y it could be more complicated
function ok
well very simple now we know everything
that we need to know for this Y that's
right sorry you're right Thank You Y
gradable to 0 x ik x greater go to 0
would be this part that's right so so
you approach it the same way as before
three steps the first step would be to
to find the point in the interior where
both partial derivatives vanish right so
step 1
step one is that F sub X zero f sub y
zero inside okay that's just like before
well of course if our function is just
2x plus y then there are no such point
so we don't have to worry about it but
in general there might be some points in
the interior so we collect those points
we don't do anything yet we just collect
them and put so that we start a list and
these points will be on the list when we
do step two now in step two you have two
components so you will do the first
component means that you do the Lagrange
multiplier but out of all points we find
we only pick those points those points
for which Y is greater than go to zero
right oh man yeah let's start with the
second component
sorry right
the curvy component no I call the second
component right no I Ament that that is
a component this is the second component
I'm just doing it out of order instead
of doing first component first and
second component second I do second
component first because I don't want to
switch the board but now I've spent more
time I would and I would have just
switching the boards and changing the
first index anyway I think I think you
know what I mean now right okay so we do
this one and this is exactly the same
calculation as we've done so far well it
would have been exactly the same if our
function were just 2x plus y but we have
to take care of the fact that now the
curve that we are talking about is not
the entire curve as before but just the
top part so we are only interested in
the points we find which belong to this
part so if you find something here we
discard it if it's not part of our
problem right so in this case if the
function war indeed 2x plus y instead of
finding two points we would find just
one point which is this one only this
one and this one we discard so it means
that at the end of your calculation you
have to check when you find your point
you have to care is it true that y 0 is
greater than equal to 0 for this one is
true but for this one is not right so
then we discard this one so that's what
you do for the second component for the
first component would by which I mean
adjust the segment from negative 1 to 1
you do it in the old-fashioned way you
just substitute the function it just
absolute y equals 0 into your function
you get function one variable you find
the derivative you find the points where
the derivative vanishes right so
so the first component is like this one
two negative one and you just substitute
substitute y equals zero get a function
one variable function G of X and then
solve the equation G prime of X equal
zero when X is between a between
negative 1 and 1 and finally you have
step 3
where because I ignored in my
intermediate calculations up to now I
ignore the two endpoints I have ignored
two endpoints for the same reason as I
explained before because I don't have to
ignore it I could also take them into
account but then I might I might I might
have to do that to include each of them
twice in my in my analysis so I
personally would just take the two
corners separately so that x equals 1 y
equals 0 and x equals negative 1 and y
equals 4 so include the model on your
put them on your list and finally you
will assemble this list so you've got
points from step one from step two each
of the two components and step three and
then you calculate the value of your
function at each of these points and you
find which ones correspond to the
maximum minimum that's how you solve it
ok question yes
that's right so the question is that
LaGrant work for the inside of the
domain so Lagrange method is
specifically for for the boundary for
the curve right so it doesn't tell us
anything about the inside because this
argument would break down about the
being tangent because for being tangent
you have to have two curves and one of
the curves would be the level curve of
function f and the other one would be
your boundary if you if you weren't
looking at the boundary then we wouldn't
be able to argue in this way right but
you have to realize that there are two
ways in which Lagrange method may enter
a given problem essentially the problems
of two types the problems where you have
to maximize or minimize functions on the
on the two-dimensional domain like this
which or like this right so this is it
usually domains which will be given by
some inequalities like x squared plus 4y
squared less equal to one or quadrant
that coupled with y greater than code to
zero such a problem consists of several
steps we have to look it inside and we
have to look on the boundary but
sometimes there could be a problem where
you just asked to maximize or minimize
your function on the boundary only in
other words your set is given note by
the inequalities by by equalities like
you could be asked specifically to find
the maximum minimum of your function 2x
plus y on that curve on that ellipse so
in that case if there is even the
problem there is no reference to the
interior of that curve you will need to
to do this to the first step you can
skip the first step because you don't
need to know what derivatives are part
of the roots and so on so you just start
with step two you just look at the at
the corresponding curve
this function you mean G prime is a
constant or G is a constant if G prime
is a constant it means it is a linear
function right so your question is about
function one variable right what does it
mean that you have a function one
variable whose derivative is a constant
it means that the function is a linear
function ax plus B and of course that
your function does not have any extrema
points any points of local maximum
minimum the derivative is no way
vanishing right so in that case this is
step two we'll be back used so that if
you have such a function the maximum
minimum that it will attain will happen
at the end points and the endpoints are
the ones we are including anyway yes
that's right that's right in fact in
this particular case that's what will
happen if F were actually two x plus y
right and we said y equals zero if our F
is 2x plus y and then we set y 0 then G
becomes 2x so it is going to building a
function like this so in that case there
will be no point coming from this
segment from the interior of this
segment only points will come from the
endpoints of that segment and in the way
I approach this those points will show
up at the third third step but if you
like you could include them in step two
as well okay so now I would like to
discuss one possible application of all
of this and the application kind of a
practical problem where you have to a
kind of an optimization problem where
you would like to optimize maximize or
minimize certain quantity under under
various constraints and so here is a
very here is a very representative
example of that
so we are building we are building a
rectangular box okay from cardboard and
we'd like to maximize the volume of the
interior of that box given that we can
use so much cardboard okay so it's a
very natural natural question with come
on can ask so build a rectangular
cardboard on your box without a lid
from 12 square meters of cardboard board
so as to maximize its volume okay so so
here you are asked to build a box like
this and what does me build a box you
have to decide what the dimensions will
be so this will be X this will be Z and
this will be Y have to decide what the
dimensions are given that you have so
much cardboard so that means that you
have to maximize if we translate it into
mathematics we say it means the reps
maximize the volume and volume of the
function of XYZ which are the dimensions
of the box and it's just it's just x
times y times Z and we have a constraint
so I'm going to function H of X Y Z
which is the amount of cardbox
right so how much cars box do we use
well this book has six sides and we have
card box a cardboard everywhere except
at the top right so we'll get two
rectangles of which size like for the
vertical ones but the horizontal there
will be only one horizontal rectangle of
dimensions x and y so the function will
be x times y that's the area of this
rectangle and it's not double because we
don't have the lid as we are asked in
the exercise but for the other guys that
will have to double ye and XZ right so
it's XY plus 2x v
it was too widely that is a total area
of card box that is used for this for
such a box right and that has to be
equal to 12 so this is a very this is we
get exactly in the situation of a
problem but Lagrange multipliers except
now we have three variables to begin
with you see in my previous problem we
only had two variables x and y so we had
a function for the function f in two
variables we have a function H in two
variables now the role of F is played by
this function V and the role of H is
played by this function H in three
variables but we will approach this
problem in exactly the same way are
namely we will say we will apply
we will apply Lagrange milligrams method
okay so so by Lagrange method crunch
multiplied that means that we are
looking for points X Y Z I will skip X 0
y 0 Z 0 I'll just call them X Y Z to
simplify notation such that nebula V the
gradient of the function V is
proportional to the gradient of the
function H I'm ever loss imposed
equation H equals 12 so remember it's
not enough to write down the equation of
proportionality I'm sorry I should the
velika number it's not enough to write
down this equation which is the equation
of proportionality of the two normal
vectors of the two gradient vectors you
also have to write down the equation
your constraint separately otherwise you
will not find a unique solution or you
will not find finally many solutions so
what does what do these equations look
like well number V is obtained by taking
all partial derivatives of that function
so what are they well with respect to X
Y Z with respect to Y X to the e with
respect to Z its X Y and here we have
lambda times the partial derivative of H
and what is the partial derivative of H
it's 2x v plus X Y what am i right
sorry looking around place so it's why
what is that right click to zo k 2z + y
- z + y - z + ab + 2 x + y 2x + 2 y okay
so now this means that we have a bunch
of equations actually how much time do I
have
okay great just enough time okay so this
is this is going to be three equations Y
Z equals lambda times 2z plus twice X Z
equals lambda times 2z plus F XY is
equal to lambda times 2x plus 2y and
finally let's not forget this this
equation 2 so that will be 2x v + 2 y z
+ XY equals 12 so we get a system of
four equations with the variables X Y Z
and lambda
that's good therefore four equations
four variables so it first looks kind of
intimidating but actually
but actually it's not so bad because for
example the way we can we can approach
this is the following we can for example
note that from this formula we know that
X Y Z equals lambda x times 2z plus y
right but also from this formula X Y Z
so maybe a tray like this is lambda x y
2z plus s from this formula now I
multiply by Z see this line I multiplied
by X this line I multiply by Y and
decline and multiply by G and the
left-hand side is the same but in
right-hand sides I get different formula
so I here I get lambda Z times 2x plus
2y okay and so for example we can we can
then equate we can look at this equation
for example right so we have then 2 X so
we get lambda times 2x plus 2x Z plus XY
is equal to lambda at x 2 y z+ x y 2y Z
plus XY right and so now the point is
that actually we can assume that we can
show that lambda is not equal to 0
because if lambda were equal to 0 then
nabla V would be 0 and a beloved me
being zero means that one of the three
variables is 0 but of course the card
box has nonzero components in dimensions
all of the three dimensions are non 0 so
lambda is non zero since nabla V is
assumed to be nonzero
so therefore we can divide by lambda we
can we can remove lambda and so now you
see what happens is that now XY
disappears and we get 2x / z is equal to
2y 0
and again since Z is not equal to zero
because of course otherwise it's not
it's not a box if T equals equal to zero
this implies that actually X is equal to
Y okay so that's the first performer
that you have and then if you substitute
in a similar way we also find that y is
equal to two Z and so that means you've
got two relations between X Y Z X is
equal to Y and Y is two Z so that means
that X is equal to Y and the X is equal
to two Z so now you can substitute them
into this last equation put this two in
the last equation you can express all of
them in terms of Z find Z find X find y
that's the solution so the the end
result is X is 2 y + 2 Z is 1 and that's
the box that you get all right you see
you on Thursday